[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We talked about
dots now let's talk about brackets.
Dots and brackets are pretty
similar as far as functionality.
The syntax is very different though and
the rules are also different.
We're here storing material,
a property material on our box and
it's gonna work exactly the same.
Box dot material is more or less
equivalent to box bracket quote material.
You can kind of think of these two
syntax as interchangeable to an extent.
What is this gonna return?
How about you,
right here with the green sweatshirt.
>> Speaker 2: Cardboard.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
totally cardboard.
We can use them interchangeably,
it doesn't affect if we store
a value using bracket notation.
It doesn't affect our dot notation at all.
And then here, what about,
green sweater in the second row?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
is this gonna return?
>> Speaker 3: Cardboard as a string.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Totally,
cardboard as a string.
Here we are, I'm assigning values,
so here's us assigning a value.
Here's us accessing a value.
If we then wanted to store a value,
we can just put it in cb and
then we can reference it later.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 4: Real
quick question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: Is that updating
the property or the value on the object?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Which one?
The second line?
>> Speaker 4: Just the brackets, is that
updating the property name or the value?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's adding a property
and a value, so it's doing both.
It's not updating anything,
it's just adding it.
>> Speaker 5: Can
you use that syntax in the second
line there and then reference it
with a dot notation later?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Absolutely.
>> Speaker 5: So they're interchangeable?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, they're
completely interchangeable, totally.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: They're
completely interchangeable
until they're not and
we're gonna talk about when they're not,
and so we're gonna talk about variables.
When we're gonna store our string value,
our property name as a variable,
we're gonna then need to
use bracket notation but
the important difference here is
we're not gonna use the quotations.
We see here in our code that we have our
key here is going to be holding the string
material and then we then put in
our bracket step variable name.
What's this going to return?
What about grey shirt, last row.
I wish you guys had name tags.
>> Speaker 6: Material?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is there
gonna be material?
Anyone wanna help him out?
>> Speaker 7: These are keys, right?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes, this is gonna be
the key.
>> Speaker 7: Got
it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so it's gonna be cardboard.
>> Speaker 7: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Key is, so
if we just like here said console.log, for
example, key, then that would be material.
That make sense?
Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 8: A question in the chat room.
The difference between box with the curly
braces, and then if you were to do box
equals new object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm, they're different.
One is constructor notation, and
one is object literal notation.
I'm going to recommend that you
always use object literal notation.
The key word new, is something you see a
lot on subject oriented languages as well
as object oriented Java script
when you are doing those patterns.
That's a little out of the scope of this
class but always just use this one and
you'll be fine but
they're essentially the same thing.
Great question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Variables,
the important thing again about
variables is we're not going to put
quotations around it because why?
Anyone have a hunch on what would happen
if we put quotations around key here?
>> Speaker 9: Then it's just a string.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Absolutely,
then it's just a string and
it will be interpreted by your browser
as a property on box called key,
which then would return undefined.
Because we don't have a property
called key on our object.
Cool.
The cool thing about bracket notation as
well is that it's actually evaluating its
expressions.
With dot notation, you can't put any
expressions or any code to be evaluated.
You can't say box dot 1 + 1.
That just wouldn't work.
However, with bracket notation,
we can do that.
Here's an example of us calling
a function in our bracket notation.
Here's a function creatively named func,
we call that function and
it returns a string material.
Think this is going to work, guys?
What's gonna print?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I need to start mixing
this up because everyone can just guess
cardboard and it's always gonna be right,
I just realized.
>> Speaker 7: Can you back to that
previous slide when you did the key thing?
Because you used quote.
Now if there happened
to be a key called key-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Uh-huh.
>> Speaker 7: Would it then return
the value of that quote unquote key or
whatever just like-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yup.
>> Speaker 7: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah. Exactly.
>> Speaker 7: All right.
>> Speaker 8: Hey, Bianca, what are the
rules around single quote, double quote?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The rules are that
you should do as I say and
not as I do because I'm not
consistent in these slides with it.
But be consistent,
they have to match one side or the other.
Generally, wherever you work,
hopefully has a style guide or
if you're contributing to open source,
there's a style guide that will
tell you which one they prefer.
You want it to match on your code base but
there isn't really a rule.
>> Speaker 8: The interpreter figures that
out that single quote and
double quote, same thing?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, but for example,
if you did key like this,
that wouldn't work.
Yeah.
But yeah, it's all the same.
You had a question in the back?
>> Speaker 8: That was the question
in the chat room.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
Cool.
My slides are strategically created with
single and double quotes so
that it brings up that question.
>> Speaker 8: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's all planned.
>> Speaker 8: Another question
is can properties be Unicode?
If so, how do I quote them?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm, I'm not sure,
that's a good question.
Email me, bianca@hackwrecker.com and
I'll get back to you on that.
>> Speaker 10: It's Escape and
then slash u and then the hex code.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Really?
Cool.
So the answer to that is you Escape it,
dash u?
>> Speaker 10: Slash u and
the hex code.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Slash u and
>> Speaker 10: There is the Unicode.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Very cool, thank you.
>> Speaker 8: Could you give an example
of Unicode?
Is that difficult?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know,
you guys are asking hard questions.
What would be an example of the Unicode?
>> Speaker 10: I have no
idea.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know,
we can look it up.
>> Speaker 8: Maybe like ampersand, or
similar thing.
>> Speaker 10: Local is A,
which is what, 65?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know.
I don't have an example of Unicode,
but that's an easy Google search.
Cool.
So Hermanth is the person
I should be upset with
who are asking me silly questions.
[LAUGH] Okay, cool.
Here we go, expressions.
Our bracket notation, unlike dot notation,
can handle expressions, and
that's pretty cool.